---
layout: post
author: chris
date: 2020-03-31 00:00:00 -0400
---

One more step toward the finish line! Today I started with some styling stuff
pointed out to me yesterday: the unit conversions on recipe#show are
now radio buttons instead of a dropdown, and serving size is a dropdown instead
of a number input. I also changed the main search bar and filter button around
so you don't have to go back up from the filter button to click search.
Hopefully that makes usage a little clearer until I can add JS to make the
filters update as you select them.

Now on to the main event: removing all the N+1's. Well, N+1 doesn't cover it,
it was more like N+5. For example, right now the search button reloads the
whole page (I know, I know...I'm getting there). The point is, filters selected
for a query need to remain selected after the query returns results.
To do that, I was calling RecipeType.all.each (RecipeType is the recipe tag
model), and then on each tag I called that RecipeType's recipe association,
THEN iterated through ALL the recipes that had that tag, comparing each 
recipe's tags to see if one matched the user's selected filter list. So I had
30-ish tags multiplied by dozens of recipes, and multiple database hits for
each. And all of this was happening right in the view!! Yeesh!

It was the first way I did it just to get it done, but now every search with at
least one filter checked triggered a comparison of each tag on each recipe, and
it was blowing up the server log with a billion database calls, which wasn't
just messy - it made finding errors in the log a real pain.

Replacing the RecipeType association nonsense with a single #joins call saved
10-12 ms, which doesn't seem like a lot, but if I ever got to multiple hundreds
of recipes and a serious amount of users, it'd add up pretty fast. I didn't
measure the recipe tag time savings, but the same change on ingredient tags
went from 15 database hits per search at 27ms, to one hit at ~5.5ms. Honestly, 
I wasn't expecting such a dramatic decrease!

Fixing the tag-related calls was straightforward, but I also had a lot of calls
related to loading the recipe cards, and that took a little more thinking. Part
of it was the visual progress bars. Each card has a colored bar that shows at a
glance the recipe difficulty, the number of ingredients, and the time required
to go from "I'm hungry" to "Wow, that's good!" I have 10 different images of
progress bars, showing levels from 1 to 10.

The problem was that selecting the right image meant generating a score between
1 and 10, and in order to generate the scores I was making three database hits 
for each recipe returned by the search query - two to get cook time and prep
time (and linear transform the sum to the range 1-10), and one hit to count the
ingredients. However, I realized the attributes of a recipe only change when
the recipe is created or updated, so scores based on the attributes should only
be changed then, too.

So now there's two extra columns on the Recipe table, one for the time score
and one for the ingredient score (the difficulty is already just a 1-to-10
number I plug into the recipe form). Now for each query, I can just grab the
collection of recipes that matches the query, and pull the relevant attributes
for the entire collection in a single database operation.

Ok, so I know this last one is going to sound pretty basic to the experienced
reader, but I'm still proud of it because I learned some new parts of Rails to
do it. The final big N+1 I had was pulling the logged-in user's favorites list.
There's a button on each recipe card that changes visual states depending on
whether the user has favorited that recipe. The original implementation was
just calling the UserProfile.favorites association for the logged-in user, then
lazy-loading each recipe one database-call at a time in the view. I figured out
how to use \#eager\_load and \#where to pull all the user's favorite recipes at
once, which cut the total pageload time almost in half! The actual number is
inflated by the dev environment baggage, but it's still a big benefit. Progress!

All in all this was a very educational and immensely satisfying day. I know
this is peanuts compared to Real World Problems, but I'm a fixit-guy at heart, 
and seeing those pageload numbers and log entries shrink tickles something in
my brain. And with all I have planned to build, who knows what I'll get to
fix a month from now!
